Update docs (#241)
TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart: docs/design.md

Most do not even have an agreed name yet. For some prior work in this area that inspired us,
see [the Unofficial Bevy Cheatbook](https://bevy-cheatbook.github.io/) and [bevy_best_practices](https://github.com/tbillington/bevy_best_practices).

## Pattern Table of Contents

- [Plugin Organization](#plugin-organization)
- [Widgets](#widgets)
- [Asset Preloading](#asset-preloading)

> - [Spawn Command](#spawn-command)
> - [Interaction Callback](#interaction-callback)
> - [Dev Tools](#dev-tools)
> - [Screen State](#screen-state)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Spawn Commands](#spawn-commands)
- [Interaction Callbacks](#interaction-callbacks)
- [Dev Tools](#dev-tools)
- [Screen States](#screen-states)
```
Subjective but I _think_ these read better pluralized.

Author: "The spawn command pattern" - "The spawn commands pattern"
"The interaction callback pattern" - "The interaction callbacks pattern"
"The screen state pattern" - "The screen states pattern"

Hmm, I'd go for singular to make it easier to have a common language.

Reviewer: "The widget pattern" or "The widgets pattern" then?

Author: "The widget pattern" sounds way more natural to me. Good point: [`e3d3ebb` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/e3d3ebb2fdab8cd0273eb18def9f35670734afd1)

Reviewer: I like the plural versions better personally. Also there's still "The dev tools pattern".

Reviewer: Can we just have the headers as the plural versions and allow people to use plural or singular w/e they want when they append "pattern" at the end? :P

Author: Alright: [`ff40632` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/ff40632f7cb0adf1defa28116ea7ec546a084e2d)

By using strings as keys, you can dynamically load assets based on input data such as a level file.
If you prefer a purely static approach, you can also use an `enum YourAssetHandleKey` and `impl AsRef<str> for YourAssetHandleKey`.
You can also mix the dynamic and static approach according to your needs.

## Spawn Commands

### Pattern

Spawn a game object by using a custom command. Inside the command,
run the spawning code with `world.run_system_once` or  `world.run_system_once_with`:

```rust
// monster.rs

#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct SpawnMonster {
    pub health: u32,
    pub transform: Transform,
}

impl Command for SpawnMonster {
    fn apply(self, world: &mut World) {
        world.run_system_once_with(self, spawn_monster);
    }
}

fn spawn_monster(
    spawn_monster: In<SpawnMonster>,
    mut commands: Commands,
) {
    commands.spawn((
        Name::new("Monster"),
        Health::new(spawn_monster.health),
        SpatialBundle::from_transform(spawn_monster.transform),
        // other components
    ));
}
```

And then to use a spawn command, add it to `Commands`:

```rust
// dangerous_forest.rs

> fn spawn_monster(mut commands: Commands) {

Reviewer: Maybe a little confusing that this function has the same name as the earlier one? Maybe rename it to like `spawn_forest_monster`

Author: Very good point!
[`b4d97f9` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/b4d97f962038bb90a8d9dfbcde1a7022e9651c5a)

    commands.add(SpawnMonster {
        health: 100,
        transform: Transform::from_xyz(10.0, 0.0, 0.0),
    });
}
```

### Reasoning

By encapsulating the spawning of a game object in a custom command,
you save on boilerplate code and can easily change the behavior of spawning.
We use `world.run_system_once_with` to run the spawning code with the same syntax as a regular system.

> That wasy, you can easily add system parameters to access things like assets and resources while spawning the entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That way you can easily add system parameters to access things like assets and resources while spawning the entity.
```

Reviewer: I'm 50/50 on the comma :P

A limitation of this approach is that calling code cannot extend the spawn call with additional components or children,
as custom commands don't return `Entity` or `EntityCommands`. This kind of usage will be possible in future Bevy versions.

## Interaction Callbacks

### Pattern

When spawning an entity that can be interacted with, such as a button that can be pressed,
register a [one-shot system](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-12/#one-shot-systems) to handle the interaction:

```rust
fn spawn_button(mut commands: Commands) {
    let pay_money = commands.register_one_shot_system(pay_money);
    commands.button("Pay up!", pay_money);
}
```

> Add the resulting `SystemId` through a newtype component to your entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting `SystemId` is added as a newtype component on the button entity.
```
More specific to the immediate context.

By encapsulating a widget inside a function, you save on a lot of boilerplate code and can easily change the appearance of all widgets of a certain type.
By returning `EntityCommands`, you can easily chain multiple widgets together and insert children into a parent widget.

## Asset Preloading

### Pattern

> Define your assets in a `Handles` resource that maps their path to a `Handle`.
> If you are definiting the assets in code, add them as constants to the `Handles` struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define your assets with a resource that maps asset paths to `Handle`s.
If you are defining the assets in code, add their paths as constants.
```

Author: "definiting" 😎

Otherwise, load them dynamically from e.g. a file.

```rust
#[derive(Resource, Debug, Deref, DerefMut, Reflect)]
#[reflect(Resource)]
pub struct ImageHandles(HashMap<String, Handle<Image>>);

impl ImageHandles {
    pub const KEY_PLAYER: &'static str = "assets/images/player.png";
    pub const KEY_ENEMY: &'static str = "assets/images/enemy.png";

>     pub const KEY_POWERUP: &'static str = "assets/images/powerup.png";

Reviewer: Isn't this supposed to omit the leading `assets/`?

Author: Yes, thanks!

Author: [`c286d6f` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/c286d6fcbe094cf3e7dd429e4d10e9f7c255f040)

}

impl FromWorld for ImageHandles {
    fn from_world(world: &mut World) -> Self {
        let asset_server = world.resource::<AssetServer>();

        let files = [

>             SoundtrackHandles::KEY_PLAYER,
>             SoundtrackHandles::KEY_ENEMY,
>             SoundtrackHandles::KEY_POWERUP,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ImageHandles::KEY_PLAYER,
            ImageHandles::KEY_ENEMY,
            ImageHandles::KEY_POWERUP,
```

        ];
        let map = files
            .into_iter()
            .map(|file| (file.to_string(), asset_server.load(file)))
            .collect();

        Self(map)
    }
}
```

> Then start preloading in the `asset::plugin`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then start preloading in the `assets::plugin`:
```

We start loading as soon as the app starts and wait for all assets to be loaded in the loading screen.

By using strings as keys, you can dynamically load assets based on input data such as a level file.
If you prefer a purely static approach, you can also use an `enum YourAssetHandleKey` and `impl AsRef<str> for YourAssetHandleKey`.
You can also mix the dynamic and static approach according to your needs.

## Spawn Command

### Pattern

Spawn a game object by using a custom command. Inside the command,
run the spawning code with `world.run_system_once` or  `world.run_system_once_with`:

```rust
// monster.rs

#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct SpawnMonster {
    pub health: u32,
    pub transform: Transform,
}

impl Command for SpawnMonster {
    fn apply(self, world: &mut World) {
        world.run_system_once_with(self, spawn_monster);
    }
}

fn spawn_monster(
    spawn_monster: In<SpawnMonster>,
    mut commands: Commands,
) {
    commands.spawn((
        Name::new("Monster"),
        Health::new(spawn_monster.health),
        SpatialBundle::from_transform(spawn_monster.transform),
        // other components
    ));
}
```

> And then, somewhere else in your code, add the command to the command queue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then to use a spawn command, add it to `Commands`:
```

```rust
// dangerous_forest.rs

fn spawn_monster(mut commands: Commands) {
    commands.add(SpawnMonster {
        health: 100,
        transform: Transform::from_xyz(10.0, 0.0, 0.0),
    });
}
```

### Reasoning

> By encapsulating the spawning of a game object in a function,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By encapsulating the spawning of a game object in a custom command,
```

you save on boilerplate code and can easily change the behavior of spawning.

> A custom command is an elegant way to then indirectly call this function from anywhere in your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling a system within the command makes it easy to add system parameters to access
things like assets and resources while spawning the entity.
```

Author: Not sure about this one. The new version reads more confusing to me.

Reviewer: The previous two lines make this line redundant. Better to replace it with a line explaining the reasoning behind the `run_system_once_with` call.

Author: Fair enough. How about this: [`63de369` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/63de3699ef54a9de2dc714e5b46005050ce48681)?

A limitation of this approach is that calling code cannot extend the spawn call with additional components or children,
as custom commands don't return `Entity` or `EntityCommands`. This kind of usage will be possible in future Bevy versions.

## Interaction Callback

### Pattern

> When adding a component that can have an interaction, such as a button that can be pressed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When spawning an entity that can be interacted with, such as a button that can be pressed,
```

register a [one-shot system](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-12/#one-shot-systems) to handle the interaction.
Add the resulting `SystemId` through a newtype component to your entity:

```rust
#[derive(Component, Debug, Reflect, Deref, DerefMut)]
#[reflect(Component, from_reflect = false)]

> pub struct OnPress(#[reflect(ignore)] pub SystemId);

Reviewer: Does this definition have to be included here? This is provided by the template, not something the user will have to write themselves.

Author: Valid question. I added it because:
- it is an integral part of the pattern, even when not part that the user will touch.
- as this document is less of a "tutorial" and more of an explanation of things you might not have seen before, it would make sense to add this as context
- it helps with understanding the "big picture" of the code, so you don't have to ask yourself what that magic `OnPress` thingy is
- the user might want to create their own `OnSomething`s. For example, I can imagine such a callback on a slider.

Reviewer: I'd rather link to the code in the template than duplicate it here.

Author: [`0d6a2de` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/0d6a2de31189ad7565b18b0ddc25d288d3476ff6)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

fn spawn_button(mut commands: Commands) {
    let pay_money = commands.register_one_shot_system(pay_money);
    commands.button("Pay up!", pay_money);
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

impl<T: Spawn> Widgets for T {
    fn button(&mut self, text: impl Into<String>, on_press: SystemId) -> EntityCommands {
        self.spawn((
            Name::new("Button"),
            ButtonBundle {
                // ...
                default()
            },
            OnPress(on_press),
        ));
    }
}
```

Note that the ugly reflect attributes are due to
[`SystemId` not implementing `Reflect`](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/issues/14496).

Also despawn the one-shot system when the interactive entity is despawned to prevent memory leaks:

```rust
pub(super) fn plugin(app: &mut App) {
    app.observe(despawn_one_shot_system);
}

/// Remove the one-shot system entity when the [`OnPress`] component is removed.
/// This is necessary as otherwise, the system would still exist after the button
/// is removed, causing a memory leak.
fn despawn_one_shot_system(
    trigger: Trigger<OnRemove, OnPress>,
    mut commands: Commands,
    on_press_query: Query<&OnPress>,
) {
    let on_press = on_press_query.get(trigger.entity()).unwrap();
    let one_shot_system_entity = on_press.entity();
    commands.entity(one_shot_system_entity).despawn_recursive();

> }

Reviewer: Same thing here. The user won't have to do this because we already wrote this code.

Author: [`0d6a2de` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/0d6a2de31189ad7565b18b0ddc25d288d3476ff6)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

### Reasoning

This pattern is inspired by [bevy_mod_picking](https://github.com/aevyrie/bevy_mod_picking).

> By adding the system handling the interaction as a component to the entity,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding the system handling the interaction to the entity as a component,
```

the code running on interactions does not need to differentiate about the entity it is running on.

In simpler words, you don't need to check if the entity is the play button, the exit button,

> or something entire different, you just run the system that was added to the entity.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this section. It's framing the strength of this pattern as avoiding a drawback of another pattern that we haven't described. And we probably shouldn't describe it either, because that would be confusing.

Should just say something about how you get fully custom behavior for each button for free.

Author: That's fair.

Author: [`b78f813` (#241)](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_quickstart/pull/241/commits/b78f81344e315b331837da157cce176b66b8943e)

This also keeps the interaction logic close to the entity that is interacted with,

> allowing for better code organization. If you however need a more global interaction system,
> consider triggering an observer from the callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allowing for better code organization. If you want multiple buttons to do the same thing, consider triggering an event in their callbacks.
```

> Define your assets in an enum so each variant maps to a `Handle`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define your assets as `const` strings that map to `Handle`s:
```
Maybe also mention that you can use an `enum` with an `Into<String>`? It might not be important enough to explain that here though.

Author: Updated over the last few commits

```rust
#[derive(Resource, Debug, Deref, DerefMut, Reflect)]
#[reflect(Resource)]
pub struct ImageHandles(HashMap<String, Handle<Image>>);

impl ImageHandles {
    pub const KEY_PLAYER: &'static str = "Player";
    pub const KEY_ENEMY: &'static str = "Enemy";
    pub const KEY_POWERUP: &'static str = "Powerup";
}

impl FromWorld for ImageHandles {
    fn from_world(world: &mut World) -> Self {
        let asset_server = world.resource::<AssetServer>();
        let map = [(
            ImageHandles::KEY_PLAYER,
            asset_server.load("player.png"),
        ), (
            ImageHandles::KEY_ENEMY,
            asset_server.load("enemy.png"),
        ), (
            ImageHandles::KEY_POWERUP,
            asset_server.load("powerup.png"),
        )]
        .into();
        Self(map)
    }
}
```

> TODO

Reviewer: Intentional?

Author: Yes, as this is still a draft and I wanted to know where I left off :D
